[v12] Update device trust docs (#31477)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/device-trust.mdx

---
title: Device Trust (Preview)
description: Teleport Device Trust Concepts
layout: tocless-doc
videoBanner: gBQyj_X1LVw
---

<Admonition type="warning">
  Device Trust is currently in Preview mode and supports following components:

  - User devices: macOS.
  - Teleport client: `tsh` and Teleport connect.
  - Resources: SSH, Database and Kubernetes.

>   Support for Windows device is available in version 13.0 and above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Support for Windows devices with a TPM is available in version 13.0 and above.
```

  Support for other operating systems, access from Web UI and application
  access is planned for upcoming Teleport versions.
</Admonition>

## Concepts

Device Trust allows Teleport admins to enforce the use of trusted devices.
Resources protected by the device mode "required" will enforce the use of a
trusted device, in addition to establishing the user's identity and enforcing
the necessary roles. Furthermore, users using a trusted device leave audit
trails that include the device's information.

Device Trust requires two of the following steps to have been configured:

- Trusted device registered and enrolled with Teleport.

> - Device enforcement mode configured via either a role or a cluster-wide config.

Reviewer: In v12, we only support cluster-wide config, right? I'm pretty sure role enforcement came in v13.

Reviewer 2: v12 supports both cluster-wide and RBAC. v12 doc link for reference - https://goteleport.com/docs/ver/12.x/access-controls/device-trust/guide/#optional-role-based-trusted-device-enforcement

Categorically, we define these two requirements as Trusted Device management
and Device Trust enforcement.

## Trusted Device management

Device management is divided into two separate phases: inventory management and
device enrollment.

**Inventory management** is performed by a device admin. In this step, devices
are registered or removed from Teleport. For example, this happens when the IT
department of your company acquires new devices, or retires devices from use.

Inventory management can be manually operated using `tctl` or automatically synced

> with a Mobile Device Management (MDM) solution such as Jamf Pro.

Reviewer: Jamf integration doesn't exist in v12 either. I would remove this.

Reviewer 2: Do you think updating this as `....solution such as Jamf Pro (available from v13 and above)`, so readers know this feature is available in newer version is a good idea?

**Device enrollment** is performed either by a device admin or by the end-user,
at your discretion. This is the step that creates the Secure Enclave private key
in the device and registers its public key counterpart with the Teleport Auth
Server. Enrollment has to run on the actual device that you want to enroll. For
example, this happens when a user gets a new device for the first time, or when
IT prepares a new device for a user. Enrollment only needs to happen once per
user/device combination.

Enrollment exchanges an enrollment token, created by a
device admin, for the opportunity to enroll the corresponding device.

### How trust is established with the device

Device Trust leverages dedicated secure hardware in devices to store device credentials
and perform device challenges. The specific implementation varies between types of devices.

On macOS devices, Device Trust uses the Secure Enclave in order to store a
device private key. That key is used to solve device challenges issued by the
Teleport Auth Service, proving the identity of the trusted device.

The signed attestation ensures that the Teleport Auth Service knows both the state

> of the device and that the request has come from the device.

Reviewer 3: I think this is a leftover from TPM? We don't usually talk about attestation for macOS, as technically there is none.

That said, a device is as "trustworthy" as the enrollment process. If enrollment operator

> enrolls a malicious device to Teleport, establishing trust with Secure Enclave or TPM is

Reviewer 3: Not sure we should mention TPM here either.

already defeated at this point. The more trusted the enrollment environment and operator,
the better the ongoing guarantees that the device itself is trustworthy.

## Device Trust enforcement

Enforcing Device Trust means configuring Teleport with device trust mode, i.e. applying
`device_trust_mode: required` rule, which tells Teleport Auth Service to only allow access
with a trusted and an authenticated device, in addition to establishing the user's identity and enforcing
the necessary roles.

> Teleport supports two methods for device enforcement: Role-based

Reviewer: Not in v12.

Reviewer 3: I think this landed in 12.1, with the first big device trust delivery.
